\section{Introduction}
Simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) is the central problem of
autonomous robot navigation. Graph SLAM formulate it as an inference problem
on a factor graph, where landmark locations and robot poses are the hidden
variables nodes to be mapped and localized, and spatial measurements are the
observed factor nodes as constraints between variable nodes. Then the goal of
the inference problem is to obtain the maximum likelihood estimate of the
joint probability of the graph, which becomes the geometrically consistent
estimate of robot trajectory and the map. This maximum likelihood estimate on
factor graphs can be solved by belief propagation, or more recently, by
numerical methods after converting into a nonlinear squares optimization.

Problems arise when factors incorrectly link unrelated variable nodes,
effectively creating wormholes between spatially distant locations thus
distorting the map geometry. In pose graphs, loop closures specify spatial
localities between arbitrary poses, but often wrongly connect randomly poses
because of bad decisions from the front-end.  In landmark-based graphs, the
data association process can also easily obtain wrong visual feature
correspondences, connecting landmarks to the wrong poses. This necessitates
robust SLAM.

Another issue beyond robust SLAM is dynamic elements in the environment.
Typical SLAM techniques in the literature are designed for unmanned navigation
in uninhabited areas, thus mostly assume static environments with stationary
landmarks or loop closures. However, recent human-robot interaction research
has seen more applications of navigation in populated, crowded, or social
environments where people and furniture moving around is the major
characteristics. If the landmarks are moving, the current localization is either
kidnapped by the movement, or resulting in distorted maps.

In this paper we devise new graph representations and algorithms to
address the issue of front-end outliers and the issue of environmental
dynamic elements within the factor graph framework. We evaluate existing
approaches of robust SLAM and conduct experiments on real world datasets to
validate the performance of our approach.
